README.md, before:

# multinational-retail-data-centralisation

## Tracking progress:

## Cleaning user_data table


- I started by importing the user_data variable from my data_extraction module - this contains the pandas dataframe to be cleaned.
- I examined the table.
- I made a copy of the table so that I could test my fixes without altering the original dataframe. Once I knew how to fix it I would code it in the class method.
- I set the index column to the already named "index" column
- I checked the the number of unique index values matched the number of rows in the table using `ud_copy.index.nunique()`
- I examined the datatypes in the database - these were all objects.
- First I converted the "first_name" and "last_name" columns to "string" datatypes.
- Then I went about converting the DOB column to a datetime value. This was trickier because - when I looked at the head of the dataframe, the date values seemed to be uniformatlly presented, but I soon discovered that the dates were present in many different formats. And there were also non-date-type values too.
- I had first used a mask to extract the DOB values that wouldn't be parsable by a simple `pd.to_datetime()` method with the format argument `format='%Y-%m-%d'`. Here I realised that there were many other date-formats to parse, as well as non-date values:
```
mask = pd.to_datetime(ud_copy.date_of_birth, format='%Y-%m-%d', errors='coerce').notna()
inverted_mask = np.invert(mask)
ud_copy.date_of_birth[inverted_mask].unique()
```
This showed me certain values:
!()[readme-images/code-snippet-1.png]

- I experimented with `dateutil.parser` `parse` method: `ud_copy['date_of_birth'] = ud_copy['date_of_birth'].apply(parse)` But because of the non-datetype values, the method was throwing a ParserError at the first non-date value, and I wasnt able to find a way around this.
- I eventually circled back to the `pd.to_datetime()` method, passing it the format argument `'mixed`: `ud_copy.date_of_birth = pd.to_datetime(ud_copy.date_of_birth, format='mixed', errors='coerce')`
- I checked the erroneous valids would be successfully deleted using this method:

```
mask2 = pd.to_datetime(ud_copy.date_of_birth, format='mixed', errors='coerce').notna()
inverted_mask2 = np.invert(mask2)
ud_copy.date_of_birth[inverted_mask2].unique()
```

- I then viewed the dateframe in `sort_value` mode according to `date_of_birth` (`ud_copy.sort_values(by='date_of_birth', axis=0).tail(50)`)and noticed that there were other columns that had the same mixed letter and number string types that I had seen polluting the DOB column.
- I went back to the "first_name" column, and used a regex expression to match all the rows that had a numerical digit in the first name:

`ud_copy.loc[ud_copy["first_name"].str.match(".*[0-9]+.*", "first_name")]`

 these rows had uniformally bogus data (I took a screenshot of this) across the columns, so I deleted all of them:

 ```
mask = ud_copy['first_name'].str.contains(pat='[0-9]', regex=True)
ud_copy = ud_copy[~mask]
 ```
I checked the last_name column didn't have any numerical digits after this too.

 > Note to self: If I deleted these rows first, I may be able to use the dateutil.parser parse method on the DOB to datetime casting. Check if it is more reliable than pandas built-in method with `format='mixed'`.

- When I called the `.describe()` method on the DOB column after making these fixes, I noticed an age range from 1938 (which was plausible, making this person 85 years old) to 2006, which I believed to be potentially plausible but dubious - this person would be 16, almost 17, at the time of writing, so it might be a value worth querying with the data provider.

- Additionally to the "bogus" data rows , there are also "NULL" value data rows" - delete all rows where the first-name is nUll- at first tried dropna() but wasn'st working - realised that they were "NULL" strings.

- also converted join_date to datetime with same method as before. Called .describe() on the edited df - joining dates between 1992 and 2022 which seems reasonable.

- converted other string-value columns to string usng same method as before

- searched for unique values in Country code: ['DE', 'GB', 'US', 'GGB']

```
for code in ud_copy['country_code'].unique():
    print(f"unique values for country code {code}: ", ud_copy[['country', 'country_code']][ud_copy['country_code'] == code]['country'].unique())
```
Result was:
```
unique values for country code DE:  ['Germany']
unique values for country code GB:  ['United Kingdom']
unique values for country code US:  ['United States']
unique values for country code GGB:  ['United Kingdom']
```

So only have the 'GGB' value to correct- the rest match up correctly.

### Phone numbers

Used this regex expression from the internet:
```
"^(((\+44\s?|0044\s?)?|(\(?0))((2[03489]\)?\s?\d{4}\s?\d{4})|(1[23456789]1\)?\s?\d{3}\s?\d{4})|(1[23456789][234578][0234679]\)?\s?\d{6})|(1[2579][0245][0467]\)?\s?\d{5})|(11[345678]\)?\s?\d{3}\s?\d{4})|(1[35679][234689]\s?[46789][234567]\)?\s?\d{4,5})|([389]\d{2}\s?\d{3}\s?\d{4})|([57][0-9]\s?\d{4}\s?\d{4})|(500\s?\d{6})|(7[456789]\d{2}\s?\d{6})))$"
```
Applied it to the range of UK telephone numbers in the dataframe (9371) in total. It divided this set into 6070 valid UK numbers and 3301 invalid uk numbers. Looking at the invalid ones, there are many here that should be accounted for. So I don't think this is the best regex. Find another...

Tried this regex expression next:
```
r'^(?:(?:\(?(?:0(?:0|11)\)?[\s-]?\(?|\+)44\)?[\s-]?(?:\(?0\)?[\s-]?)?)|(?:\(?0))(?:(?:\d{5}\)?[\s-]?\d{4,5})|(?:\d{4}\)?[\s-]?(?:\d{5}|\d{3}[\s-]?\d{3}))|(?:\d{3}\)?[\s-]?\d{3}[\s-]?\d{3,4})|(?:\d{2}\)?[\s-]?\d{4}[\s-]?\d{4}))(?:[\s-]?(?:x|ext\.?|\#)\d{3,4})?$'

uk_subset = ud_copy[ud_copy['country_code'] == 'GB']

valid_uk_nos = uk_subset['phone_number'].str.match(uk_tel_regex)

uk_subset_with_valid_uk_nos = uk_subset[valid_uk_nos]
uk_subset_with_invalid_uk_nos = uk_subset[~valid_uk_nos]

uk_subset_with_invalid_uk_nos[['country_code', 'phone_number']] # 8920 rows
uk_subset_with_valid_uk_nos[['country_code', 'phone_number']] # 451 rows
```
Much better result - 451 columns out of the total invalid. Did a spot check and it looked correct.

For the US version, I couldn't find one that did everything I needed it to do, so I hobbled some regex together from different places and then I had fun on the regex visualiser tool debuggex.com[debuggex.com] honing it until it worked. It might need some further honing to catch other exceptions.

-verified that all the "user_uuid" values were unique (number of unique values matched number of values)

German phone number validation was harder.
- I ran searches on the German phone number subset of the user data to see if the numbers contained any extensions, dashes or forward slashes - they did not. They did have a mixed format of dialling codes being included versus omitted, and brackets being used.
- Most landline numbers have 11 digits, but the number of digits in a German phonen number (not including the country code, and starting from the first 0), can range from 9 to 13 in length. The area code, including the 0 at the start of the number, can range from 3 to 5 digits in length. Neither the second digit nor third digit of the phone number can be a 0. If the second digit is a 1, the third digit cannot also be 1, so must be a number between 2 and 9. Are codes might by presented between brackets.
- Decision to make - whether to accept numbers provided without an area code - I decided not for the time being.
- In terms of the digits that appear after the area code, I allowed for flexibility and errors in formatting conventions by allowing spaces to be entered at any point, including trailing whitespace at the end.
- Also allowed for the posssibility of the number being entered with or without the country dialling code, with or without the 0 starting the number itself, and with or without a (0) after the country dialling code if used.

![German phone number regex, screenshot from debuggex.com](readme-images/german-num-regex.png)

- When I tested the regular expression on my German number subset, out of 4708 entries, 576 came up as invalid. I spot checked 50 of these and all were confirmed to be invalid based on the rules above. (Most had invalid combinations of 0's or 1's in their first 3 digits.)

### To do list for further refining the data cleaning:
- Is 0 a valid street number? See address field.
- format phone numbers to remove country code
- improve regex for US and UK
- refactor data cleaning code - make modular
- format datetime objects to remove times
- check for duplicate data
- refactor code in database_utils

### Issues I encountered:
- I was trying to use subsets to replace erroneous values. I modified this by accessing the filtered data using .loc that combined a conditional filtering for the subset of data and a mask identifying the regex matches (or non-matches).

## Cleaning card_data table

### card_number column

- I retrieved the values that contained non-numeric data types:
```
cd_df[~ cd_df["card_number"].str.isnumeric().fillna(False)]["card_number"].unique()
```
- This displayed:
```
<StringArray>
[           'card_number',      '?4971858637664481',    '???3554954842403828',
                     <NA>,             'VAB9DSB8ZM',             'MOZOT5Q95V',
     '??4654492346226715',      '?3544855866042397',             'K0084A9R99',
             'Y8ITI33X30',     '??2720312980409662',             'RNSCD8OCIM',
        '??4982246481860',       '?213174667750869',   '????3505784569448924',
   '????3556268655280464',    '???2604762576985106',             'MIK9G2EMM0',
    '???5451311230288361',             'I4PWLWSIRJ',             'OMZSBN2XG3',
             'NB8JJ05D7R', '???4252720361802860591',         '?4217347542710',
          '?584541931351',    '???4672685148732305',     '??3535182016456604',
   '?4222069242355461965',   '????3512756643215215',             'G0EF4TS8C8',
      '?2314734659486501',    '????341935091733787',             'Z8855EXTJX',
   '????3543745641013832',             'JQTLQAAQTD',             'T23BTBBJDD',
         '??575421945446',         '??630466795154',     '????38922600092697',
    '????344132437598598',    '???4814644393449676',             'LSWT9DT4G4']
Length: 42, dtype: string
```
- This included:
    - mixed letter and numeric strings
    - card numbers with question marks in them
    - `<NA>` values
    - `card_number` values where the column headings (which were at the top of every page) had been erroneously entered as data values
- I first removed the rows which had the column headings entered as data values - this was the majority of the outlying data for card_number
- Then I removed the NaN values
- This left me with string values only - now I removed all the '?' from the card numbers
- I then check all the card number lengths were within range using `cd_df['card_number'].map(lambda x: len(x)).value_counts()`
    - This showed card number lengths between 9 and 16, which are all valid lengths.
    - I haven't yet checked that this left with me the valid lengths for each corresponding card_provider/card_type.

### card_provider
- Column values uploaded as object datatype
- 10 unique values:
```
array(['Diners Club / Carte Blanche', 'American Express', 'JCB 16 digit',
       'JCB 15 digit', 'Maestro', 'Mastercard', 'Discover',
       'VISA 19 digit', 'VISA 16 digit', 'VISA 13 digit'], dtype=object)
```
- No accidental duplicates so converted the column values to category types
- Consideration: after verifying the number of digits in the card number matches the number of digits in the subcategory, should I collapse the categories of "VISA 16", "VISA 19", etc into one category "VISA"? Chose not to for now


### expiry_date & date_payment_confirmed columns
- The expiry_date column values were in the format MM/YY, e,g, `'09/23'` for "September 2023". I converted this column to DateTime values that representing the date at the last day of the month (using panda.tseries.offset `MonthEnd`).
    - QUERY: since this column is still in dtype `datetime64[ns]`, when it is imported to postgresql, it will import the expiry time at 00:00:00:00 on the last day of the month, i.e. 24 hours before the actual expiry time. How to handle this?
- I used dateutil.parser parse the date_payment confirmed column before converting it to a datetime value.
    - QUERY: as above, this column is still of dtype `datetime64[ns]` so will be imported to postgresql with time value os 00:00:00:00 - how to handle this?
- All the expiry dates appear to be within range.


## Cleaning stores_data dataframe:

- Dropped 'lat' column after running:
```
sd_df[['lat', 'latitude']]
sd_df['lat'].unique()
```
The only values in 'lat' were:
```
array(['N/A', None, '13KJZ890JH', '2XE1OWOC23', 'NULL', 'OXVE5QR07O',
       'VKA5I8H32X', 'LACCWDI0SB', 'A3O5CBWAMD', 'UXMWDMX1LC'],
      dtype=object)
```
- Note that for the Web Portal store, the latitude value is "None" (registered as null), while longitude is represented by the string 'N/A'

- Checked continents and country codes all matched up after cleaning those values by running
```
sd_df[sd_df['country_code'] == 'US']['continent'].unique()
sd_df[sd_df['country_code'] == 'DE']['continent'].unique()
sd_df[sd_df['country_code'] == 'GB']['continent'].unique()
```

- How I identified the outlying 'opening_date' formats", before attempting to cast the date to datetime:

```
sd_df.opening_date.map(lambda x: len(x)).value_counts()
```
- This displayed:
```
opening_date
10    431
16      4
15      2
11      2
12      1
13      1
Name: count, dtype: int64
```
- Most likely that 431 majority are in the ISO format (10 characters make up 'YYYY-MM-DD')
- 10 entries in this column are of other lengths. It was fiddly to identify which these were. Eventually I got there using:

```
outlying_opening_date_values = sd_df.opening_date.map(lambda x: len(x))
mask_outlying_opening_date_values = outlying_opening_date_values != 10
sd_df.loc[:, 'opening_date'][mask_outlying_opening_date_values]
```
- This displayed:
```
10      October 2012 08
11         July 2015 14
122    2020 February 01
143         May 2003 27
190    2016 November 25
242     October 2006 04
292         2001 May 04
340    1994 November 24
369    February 2009 28
394       March 2015 02
Name: opening_date, dtype: object
```

- It seemed more straightforward to map these 10 outlying values manually before parsing the date values from the column using a pandas or dateutil method. / these are all dates so maybe they'll be parsed?

- checked that the store_code value was unique - it was


## DataCleaning of products data
### product_weight:
### product_price:
- In case of mixed values:
```
pd_df['product_price'].apply(type).value_counts()
```
This showed that all entries were of class `'str'`.
- Checked all prices were in pounds sterling by returning a view of the dataframe that was sorted alphabetically according to the product_price column. This showed all value strings started with a £ sign.
- I also ran a quick check to see the length of those strings, and they were majority lengths of 5 and 6, with a only 6 outliers that were of length 7.
- I viewed the product data for this handful of items whose product_price value was a string of a 7 character length:
```
mask = pd_df['product_price'].apply(lambda x: len(x)) == 7
pd_df[mask]
```
These were confirmed as appropriately priced premium items.

### date_added
```
mask = pd_df['date_added'].apply(lambda x: re.match(r'\d{4}\-\d{2}\-\d{2}', x)).apply(lambda x: True if x == None else False)
pd_df[mask]
```
- returned only two dates, so I could assume all dates were either in YYYY-MM-DD or YYYY-DD-MM.

## Data extraction
- Using tabula to retrieve from PDF
- Using requests and JSON libraries to request and retrieve from API with authentication details in header
    - Employed a loop to retrieve stores data from the response to each query (0 to 450) in the endpoint and loaded it into pandas dataframe using concatenate method.
    - Go back to fix indexing issue with concatenate - but in the meantime, I just dropped the extra index column in the data cleaning part.
    - Is there a faster method than using concatenate with a loop?
- Using SQLAlchemy to retrieve from AWS RDS database
- Using boto3 to downloaxd and extract from S3.

- Include YAML of conda environment at end?

## Import and file structure
- need to figure out where to do the file extraction etc. - import just the files or the methods?

Commit message:

update with date events cleaning

README.md, after:

# multinational-retail-data-centralisation

## Tracking progress:

## Cleaning user_data table


- I started by importing the user_data variable from my data_extraction module - this contains the pandas dataframe to be cleaned.
- I examined the table.
- I made a copy of the table so that I could test my fixes without altering the original dataframe. Once I knew how to fix it I would code it in the class method.
- I set the index column to the already named "index" column
- I checked the the number of unique index values matched the number of rows in the table using `ud_copy.index.nunique()`
- I examined the datatypes in the database - these were all objects.
- First I converted the "first_name" and "last_name" columns to "string" datatypes.
- Then I went about converting the DOB column to a datetime value. This was trickier because - when I looked at the head of the dataframe, the date values seemed to be uniformatlly presented, but I soon discovered that the dates were present in many different formats. And there were also non-date-type values too.
- I had first used a mask to extract the DOB values that wouldn't be parsable by a simple `pd.to_datetime()` method with the format argument `format='%Y-%m-%d'`. Here I realised that there were many other date-formats to parse, as well as non-date values:
```
mask = pd.to_datetime(ud_copy.date_of_birth, format='%Y-%m-%d', errors='coerce').notna()
inverted_mask = np.invert(mask)
ud_copy.date_of_birth[inverted_mask].unique()
```
This showed me certain values:
!()[readme-images/code-snippet-1.png]

- I experimented with `dateutil.parser` `parse` method: `ud_copy['date_of_birth'] = ud_copy['date_of_birth'].apply(parse)` But because of the non-datetype values, the method was throwing a ParserError at the first non-date value, and I wasnt able to find a way around this.
- I eventually circled back to the `pd.to_datetime()` method, passing it the format argument `'mixed`: `ud_copy.date_of_birth = pd.to_datetime(ud_copy.date_of_birth, format='mixed', errors='coerce')`
- I checked the erroneous valids would be successfully deleted using this method:

```
mask2 = pd.to_datetime(ud_copy.date_of_birth, format='mixed', errors='coerce').notna()
inverted_mask2 = np.invert(mask2)
ud_copy.date_of_birth[inverted_mask2].unique()
```

- I then viewed the dateframe in `sort_value` mode according to `date_of_birth` (`ud_copy.sort_values(by='date_of_birth', axis=0).tail(50)`)and noticed that there were other columns that had the same mixed letter and number string types that I had seen polluting the DOB column.
- I went back to the "first_name" column, and used a regex expression to match all the rows that had a numerical digit in the first name:

`ud_copy.loc[ud_copy["first_name"].str.match(".*[0-9]+.*", "first_name")]`

 these rows had uniformally bogus data (I took a screenshot of this) across the columns, so I deleted all of them:

 ```
mask = ud_copy['first_name'].str.contains(pat='[0-9]', regex=True)
ud_copy = ud_copy[~mask]
 ```
I checked the last_name column didn't have any numerical digits after this too.

 > Note to self: If I deleted these rows first, I may be able to use the dateutil.parser parse method on the DOB to datetime casting. Check if it is more reliable than pandas built-in method with `format='mixed'`.

- When I called the `.describe()` method on the DOB column after making these fixes, I noticed an age range from 1938 (which was plausible, making this person 85 years old) to 2006, which I believed to be potentially plausible but dubious - this person would be 16, almost 17, at the time of writing, so it might be a value worth querying with the data provider.

- Additionally to the "bogus" data rows , there are also "NULL" value data rows" - delete all rows where the first-name is nUll- at first tried dropna() but wasn'st working - realised that they were "NULL" strings.

- also converted join_date to datetime with same method as before. Called .describe() on the edited df - joining dates between 1992 and 2022 which seems reasonable.

- converted other string-value columns to string usng same method as before

- searched for unique values in Country code: ['DE', 'GB', 'US', 'GGB']

```
for code in ud_copy['country_code'].unique():
    print(f"unique values for country code {code}: ", ud_copy[['country', 'country_code']][ud_copy['country_code'] == code]['country'].unique())
```
Result was:
```
unique values for country code DE:  ['Germany']
unique values for country code GB:  ['United Kingdom']
unique values for country code US:  ['United States']
unique values for country code GGB:  ['United Kingdom']
```

So only have the 'GGB' value to correct- the rest match up correctly.

### Phone numbers

Used this regex expression from the internet:
```
"^(((\+44\s?|0044\s?)?|(\(?0))((2[03489]\)?\s?\d{4}\s?\d{4})|(1[23456789]1\)?\s?\d{3}\s?\d{4})|(1[23456789][234578][0234679]\)?\s?\d{6})|(1[2579][0245][0467]\)?\s?\d{5})|(11[345678]\)?\s?\d{3}\s?\d{4})|(1[35679][234689]\s?[46789][234567]\)?\s?\d{4,5})|([389]\d{2}\s?\d{3}\s?\d{4})|([57][0-9]\s?\d{4}\s?\d{4})|(500\s?\d{6})|(7[456789]\d{2}\s?\d{6})))$"
```
Applied it to the range of UK telephone numbers in the dataframe (9371) in total. It divided this set into 6070 valid UK numbers and 3301 invalid uk numbers. Looking at the invalid ones, there are many here that should be accounted for. So I don't think this is the best regex. Find another...

Tried this regex expression next:
```
r'^(?:(?:\(?(?:0(?:0|11)\)?[\s-]?\(?|\+)44\)?[\s-]?(?:\(?0\)?[\s-]?)?)|(?:\(?0))(?:(?:\d{5}\)?[\s-]?\d{4,5})|(?:\d{4}\)?[\s-]?(?:\d{5}|\d{3}[\s-]?\d{3}))|(?:\d{3}\)?[\s-]?\d{3}[\s-]?\d{3,4})|(?:\d{2}\)?[\s-]?\d{4}[\s-]?\d{4}))(?:[\s-]?(?:x|ext\.?|\#)\d{3,4})?$'

uk_subset = ud_copy[ud_copy['country_code'] == 'GB']

valid_uk_nos = uk_subset['phone_number'].str.match(uk_tel_regex)

uk_subset_with_valid_uk_nos = uk_subset[valid_uk_nos]
uk_subset_with_invalid_uk_nos = uk_subset[~valid_uk_nos]

uk_subset_with_invalid_uk_nos[['country_code', 'phone_number']] # 8920 rows
uk_subset_with_valid_uk_nos[['country_code', 'phone_number']] # 451 rows
```
Much better result - 451 columns out of the total invalid. Did a spot check and it looked correct.

For the US version, I couldn't find one that did everything I needed it to do, so I hobbled some regex together from different places and then I had fun on the regex visualiser tool debuggex.com[debuggex.com] honing it until it worked. It might need some further honing to catch other exceptions.

-verified that all the "user_uuid" values were unique (number of unique values matched number of values)

German phone number validation was harder.
- I ran searches on the German phone number subset of the user data to see if the numbers contained any extensions, dashes or forward slashes - they did not. They did have a mixed format of dialling codes being included versus omitted, and brackets being used.
- Most landline numbers have 11 digits, but the number of digits in a German phonen number (not including the country code, and starting from the first 0), can range from 9 to 13 in length. The area code, including the 0 at the start of the number, can range from 3 to 5 digits in length. Neither the second digit nor third digit of the phone number can be a 0. If the second digit is a 1, the third digit cannot also be 1, so must be a number between 2 and 9. Are codes might by presented between brackets.
- Decision to make - whether to accept numbers provided without an area code - I decided not for the time being.
- In terms of the digits that appear after the area code, I allowed for flexibility and errors in formatting conventions by allowing spaces to be entered at any point, including trailing whitespace at the end.
- Also allowed for the posssibility of the number being entered with or without the country dialling code, with or without the 0 starting the number itself, and with or without a (0) after the country dialling code if used.

![German phone number regex, screenshot from debuggex.com](readme-images/german-num-regex.png)

- When I tested the regular expression on my German number subset, out of 4708 entries, 576 came up as invalid. I spot checked 50 of these and all were confirmed to be invalid based on the rules above. (Most had invalid combinations of 0's or 1's in their first 3 digits.)

### To do list for further refining the data cleaning:
- Is 0 a valid street number? See address field.
- format phone numbers to remove country code
- improve regex for US and UK
- refactor data cleaning code - make modular
- format datetime objects to remove times
- check for duplicate data
- refactor code in database_utils

### Issues I encountered:
- I was trying to use subsets to replace erroneous values. I modified this by accessing the filtered data using .loc that combined a conditional filtering for the subset of data and a mask identifying the regex matches (or non-matches).

## Cleaning card_data table

### card_number column

- I retrieved the values that contained non-numeric data types:
```
cd_df[~ cd_df["card_number"].str.isnumeric().fillna(False)]["card_number"].unique()
```
- This displayed:
```
<StringArray>
[           'card_number',      '?4971858637664481',    '???3554954842403828',
                     <NA>,             'VAB9DSB8ZM',             'MOZOT5Q95V',
     '??4654492346226715',      '?3544855866042397',             'K0084A9R99',
             'Y8ITI33X30',     '??2720312980409662',             'RNSCD8OCIM',
        '??4982246481860',       '?213174667750869',   '????3505784569448924',
   '????3556268655280464',    '???2604762576985106',             'MIK9G2EMM0',
    '???5451311230288361',             'I4PWLWSIRJ',             'OMZSBN2XG3',
             'NB8JJ05D7R', '???4252720361802860591',         '?4217347542710',
          '?584541931351',    '???4672685148732305',     '??3535182016456604',
   '?4222069242355461965',   '????3512756643215215',             'G0EF4TS8C8',
      '?2314734659486501',    '????341935091733787',             'Z8855EXTJX',
   '????3543745641013832',             'JQTLQAAQTD',             'T23BTBBJDD',
         '??575421945446',         '??630466795154',     '????38922600092697',
    '????344132437598598',    '???4814644393449676',             'LSWT9DT4G4']
Length: 42, dtype: string
```
- This included:
    - mixed letter and numeric strings
    - card numbers with question marks in them
    - `<NA>` values
    - `card_number` values where the column headings (which were at the top of every page) had been erroneously entered as data values
- I first removed the rows which had the column headings entered as data values - this was the majority of the outlying data for card_number
- Then I removed the NaN values
- This left me with string values only - now I removed all the '?' from the card numbers
- I then check all the card number lengths were within range using `cd_df['card_number'].map(lambda x: len(x)).value_counts()`
    - This showed card number lengths between 9 and 16, which are all valid lengths.
    - I haven't yet checked that this left with me the valid lengths for each corresponding card_provider/card_type.

### card_provider
- Column values uploaded as object datatype
- 10 unique values:
```
array(['Diners Club / Carte Blanche', 'American Express', 'JCB 16 digit',
       'JCB 15 digit', 'Maestro', 'Mastercard', 'Discover',
       'VISA 19 digit', 'VISA 16 digit', 'VISA 13 digit'], dtype=object)
```
- No accidental duplicates so converted the column values to category types
- Consideration: after verifying the number of digits in the card number matches the number of digits in the subcategory, should I collapse the categories of "VISA 16", "VISA 19", etc into one category "VISA"? Chose not to for now


### expiry_date & date_payment_confirmed columns
- The expiry_date column values were in the format MM/YY, e,g, `'09/23'` for "September 2023". I converted this column to DateTime values that representing the date at the last day of the month (using panda.tseries.offset `MonthEnd`).
    - QUERY: since this column is still in dtype `datetime64[ns]`, when it is imported to postgresql, it will import the expiry time at 00:00:00:00 on the last day of the month, i.e. 24 hours before the actual expiry time. How to handle this?
- I used dateutil.parser parse the date_payment confirmed column before converting it to a datetime value.
    - QUERY: as above, this column is still of dtype `datetime64[ns]` so will be imported to postgresql with time value os 00:00:00:00 - how to handle this?
- All the expiry dates appear to be within range.


## Cleaning stores_data dataframe:

- Dropped 'lat' column after running:
```
sd_df[['lat', 'latitude']]
sd_df['lat'].unique()
```
The only values in 'lat' were:
```
array(['N/A', None, '13KJZ890JH', '2XE1OWOC23', 'NULL', 'OXVE5QR07O',
       'VKA5I8H32X', 'LACCWDI0SB', 'A3O5CBWAMD', 'UXMWDMX1LC'],
      dtype=object)
```
- Note that for the Web Portal store, the latitude value is "None" (registered as null), while longitude is represented by the string 'N/A'

- Checked continents and country codes all matched up after cleaning those values by running
```
sd_df[sd_df['country_code'] == 'US']['continent'].unique()
sd_df[sd_df['country_code'] == 'DE']['continent'].unique()
sd_df[sd_df['country_code'] == 'GB']['continent'].unique()
```

- How I identified the outlying 'opening_date' formats", before attempting to cast the date to datetime:

```
sd_df.opening_date.map(lambda x: len(x)).value_counts()
```
- This displayed:
```
opening_date
10    431
16      4
15      2
11      2
12      1
13      1
Name: count, dtype: int64
```
- Most likely that 431 majority are in the ISO format (10 characters make up 'YYYY-MM-DD')
- 10 entries in this column are of other lengths. It was fiddly to identify which these were. Eventually I got there using:

```
outlying_opening_date_values = sd_df.opening_date.map(lambda x: len(x))
mask_outlying_opening_date_values = outlying_opening_date_values != 10
sd_df.loc[:, 'opening_date'][mask_outlying_opening_date_values]
```
- This displayed:
```
10      October 2012 08
11         July 2015 14
122    2020 February 01
143         May 2003 27
190    2016 November 25
242     October 2006 04
292         2001 May 04
340    1994 November 24
369    February 2009 28
394       March 2015 02
Name: opening_date, dtype: object
```

- It seemed more straightforward to map these 10 outlying values manually before parsing the date values from the column using a pandas or dateutil method. / these are all dates so maybe they'll be parsed?

- checked that the store_code value was unique - it was


## DataCleaning of products data
### product_weight:
### product_price:
- In case of mixed values:
```
pd_df['product_price'].apply(type).value_counts()
```
This showed that all entries were of class `'str'`.
- Checked all prices were in pounds sterling by returning a view of the dataframe that was sorted alphabetically according to the product_price column. This showed all value strings started with a £ sign.
- I also ran a quick check to see the length of those strings, and they were majority lengths of 5 and 6, with a only 6 outliers that were of length 7.
- I viewed the product data for this handful of items whose product_price value was a string of a 7 character length:
```
mask = pd_df['product_price'].apply(lambda x: len(x)) == 7
pd_df[mask]
```
These were confirmed as appropriately priced premium items.

### date_added
```
mask = pd_df['date_added'].apply(lambda x: re.match(r'\d{4}\-\d{2}\-\d{2}', x)).apply(lambda x: True if x == None else False)
pd_df[mask]
```
- returned only two dates, so I could assume all dates were either in YYYY-MM-DD or YYYY-DD-MM.

## Clean stores_data
-Question about index columns - there were two - but they weren't the same, so I kept both in case they both had a use for some reason.
- Dropped null columns
- cast columns to string datatypes for the id and reference values, and to lower integer types for the integer values

## Clean date events data
- Removed rows of null and meaningless values by using a mask to filtering for rows that fit to one of the 'time_period' categories, then setting the dateframe to this mask
- Casted the 'time_period' column to a category type
- Casted the date_uuid column to a string type
- Replaced the 'timestamp', 'year', 'month' and 'day' columns with one column that aggregated these, cast to datetime64[s] type

## Data extraction
- Using tabula to retrieve from PDF
- Using requests and JSON libraries to request and retrieve from API with authentication details in header
    - Employed a loop to retrieve stores data from the response to each query (0 to 450) in the endpoint and loaded it into pandas dataframe using concatenate method.
    - Go back to fix indexing issue with concatenate - but in the meantime, I just dropped the extra index column in the data cleaning part.
    - Is there a faster method than using concatenate with a loop?
- Using SQLAlchemy to retrieve from AWS RDS database
- Using boto3 to downloaxd and extract from S3.

- Include YAML of conda environment at end?

## Import and file structure
- need to figure out where to do the file extraction etc. - import just the files or the methods?
